Mobile and portable devices have gone through a serious evolution. Mobile phones developed from just communicators into an essential device in our day by day. Back in the 1990s mobile phones were mainly used for calls and text messages, while other devices such as personal organisers handle calendars, note taking and other daily functions. as mobile phone prices began dropping which made it more affordable over time for people, especially teenagers. This rise in accessibility and youth adoption began sharing  mobile culture which made mobile phones shape into smartphones. This shows how rapidly new technologies can be created and developed to adapt into our society. Since mobile phones were hard to achieve back in the day, they were shaped into and created to be affordable and easy to carry around.

One of the main societal key points that transformed the development of the ARM microprocessor. since arm chips can provide significant computing power while using very few amounts of energy. This made smartphones able to become lightweight, portable and capable to run many different functions at once. These functions made us be able to carry a portable computer in our packet. This meant that phones could store and play music, take photos and gps services by using a touchscreen function making. Due to this, our daily behavior changed, making us rely on our phones for tasks that used to require several devices.

Another major change resulted from the move from 2g to 3g. 3G made mobile phones handle data for more complex activities such as sending and receiving a video, the use of internet and multimedia content. This turned mobile phones into an expansion on our use of information and new ways of entertainment.  Later on, we got the introduction of 4g in 2012, which expanded these functions even further. These new technologies have created many opportunities for jobs, creativity and learning, making our lives easier and improving our skills and daily tasks. 

Smartphones grew in popularity rapidly after the release of the iphone 3g back in 2008. By 2013, one in five people worldwide owned a smartphone, this showed how quickly these devices became part of our lives and were there to stay and develop even further as we can see nowadays. The fact that in just that few years we have adopted and developed our technologies into our lives can show our intelligence to create and adapt to change.

We can see an example of the huge impact in the live video call from the summit of mount Everest. by the use of a smartphone and a satellite link, Daniel Hughes transmitted live video to the BBC from one of the most remote places on earth. This moment demonstrated how smartphones made several changes to the way people communicate, making it possible to send complex digital data from almost anywhere. we cant still have connection and share data from some places due to the poor connection, wrong configuration or data limits.

In conclusion, the development of efficient microprocessors and fast data networks transformed mobile phones into a personal portable computing device fully connected. They have transformed how people access information, communicate and share, becoming an essential tool nowadays.
